The Bentley–Ottmann algorithm performs the following steps.

Initialize a priority queue Q of potential future events, each associated with a point in the plane and prioritized by the x-coordinate of the point. So, initially, Q contains an event for each of the endpoints of the input segments.
Initialize a self-balancing binary search tree T of the line segments that cross the sweep line L, ordered by the y-coordinates of the crossing points. Initially, T is empty. (Even though the line sweep L is not explicitly represented, it may be helpful to imagine it as a vertical line which, initially, is at the left of all input segments.)
While Q is nonempty, find and remove the event from Q associated with a point p with minimum x-coordinate. Determine what type of event this is and process it according to the following case analysis:
If p is the left endpoint of a line segment s, insert s into T. Find the line-segments r and t that are respectively immediately above and below s in T (if they exist); if the crossing of r and t (the neighbours of s in the status data structure) forms a potential future event in the event queue, remove this possible future event from the event queue. If s crosses r or t, add those crossing points as potential future events in the event queue.
If p is the right endpoint of a line segment s, remove s from T. Find the segments r and t that (prior to the removal of s) were respectively immediately above and below it in T (if they exist). If r and t cross, add that crossing point as a potential future event in the event queue.
If p is the crossing point of two segments s and t (with s below t to the left of the crossing), swap the positions of s and t in T. After the swap, find the segments r and u (if they exist) that are immediately below and above t and s, respectively. Remove any crossing points rs (i.e. a crossing point between r and s) and tu (i.e. a crossing point between t and u) from the event queue, and, if r and t cross or s and u cross, add those crossing points to the event queue.